DOC-4734 SSO SQL access (#15657)
cockroachdb/docs: v22.2/sso-sql.md

> ---

Reviewer: Note to self to resume review here.

---
title: Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using JSON web tokens (JWT)
summary: Overview of Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) for {{ site.data.products.core }}, review of authenticating users, configuring required cluster settings.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

Cluster SSO allows users to access the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster (whether provisioned on {{ site.data.products.db }} or self-hosted) with the full security of Single Sign-On (SSO), and the convenience of being able to choose from a variety of cloud based or customer-managed identity providers (IdPs).

This page describes the procedure for accessing a {{ site.data.products.db }} cluster using the JWT access tokens provided by a customer-managed IdP. This document applies for both {{ site.data.products.core }} and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} customers.

> You might also be looking for: [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using CockroachDB Cloud Console](../cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql.html).

Author: ```suggestion
You might also be looking for: [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using CockroachDB Cloud Console](../cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql.html). This is an option for authenticating human users to cloud clusters, but does not work for service accounts or in the context of self-hosted clusters.
```

> You might also be looking for: [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using CockroachDB Cloud Console](../cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql.html).

Author: How about that?

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### `server.jwt_authentication.enabled`

	Enable or disable Cluster SSO

	Required value: `true`

	Check to confirm that JWT authentication is enabled on your cluster. It is enabled by default in {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters.

### `server.jwt_authentication.jwks`

Add your IdP's public signing key to your cluster's list of accepted signing JSON web keys (JWKS), under the `jwks` setting. This is a [JWK](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517) formatted single key or key set, containing the public keys for SSO token issuers/IdPs that will be accepted by your cluster.

By default, your cluster's configuration will contain the {{ site.data.products.db }}'s own public key, allowing {{ site.data.products.db }} to serve as an IdP. When modifying this cluster setting, you must include the {{ site.data.products.db }} public key in the key set. Failing to do so will lock out console SSO users and prevent maintenance access by the {{ site.data.products.db }} managed service, leading to unintended consequences.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> {{ site.data.products.db }}'s IdP configuration can be viewed publicly at: `https://cockroachlabs.cloud/.well-known/openid-configuration`.

Author: ```suggestion
{{ site.data.products.db }}'s IdP configuration can be viewed publicly at: [`https://cockroachlabs.cloud/.well-known/openid-configuration`](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/.well-known/openid-configuration).
```

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
	Any IdP that is configured on your cluster can grant SQL access to your cluster, and therefore any data that is stored within. This configuration is therefore critical for security.

	Changes to this configuration should be made with utmost care, and access to updating this configuration (granted by the [`admin` role](security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) or the [`MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` role option](security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges)) should be carefully restricted.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
	{{ site.data.products.db }}'s IdP configuration can be viewed publicly at: `https://cockroachlabs.cloud/.well-known/openid-configuration`.
	The `issuer` is `https://cockroachlabs.cloud`.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### `server.jwt_authentication.audience`
	
	The ID of your cluster as specified by the IdP, or a JSON array of such names. One of the audience values here must match the `audience` claim of an access token, or it will be rejected.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> 	Many third party token issuers, including GCP and Azure, will by default create tokens with a generic default audience. It is best practice to limit the scope of access tokens as much as possible, so if possible, we recommend issuing tokens with only the required audience value corresponding to the `audience` configured on the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Many third-party token issuers, including GCP and Azure, will by default create tokens with a generic default audience. It is best practice to limit the scope of access tokens as much as possible, so if possible, we recommend issuing tokens with only the required audience value corresponding to the `audience` configured on the cluster.
```

> 	By extension, if your provider allows you to specify scopes or permissions on the token, you should specify these as restrictively as possible to what is necessary for the functions intended for the service account or user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	By extension, if your provider allows you to specify scopes or permissions on the token, you should specify these as restrictively as possible, while still allowing for the functions intended for the service account or user.
```

---

> title: Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO) for Self-hosted CockroachDB

Reviewer 2: The same issue on the page formatting is happening here. That is, the sidebar is pushed to one side weirdly. I *think* it's to do with the heading hierarchy

Author: Whoops, just fixed it. It was an improperly formatted 'callout', @nickvigilante helped me figure it out!

Reviewer 2: Ahhh nice! Good to know!

summary: Overview of Single Sign-On (SSO) for CockroachDB SQL Access, and review of workflows for authenticating human and bot users, and for configuring the feature.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

## What is Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO)?

Cluster SSO allows users to access the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster using a JWT auth token issued by a customer-managed identity provider (IdP).

This page discusses use cases for authenticating to {{ site.data.products.core }} clusters. You might instead be looking for [Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO) for Cockroach Cloud](../cockroachcloud/cloud-sso-sql.html) or [Single Sign-On (SSO) for CockroachDB Cloud organizations](../cockroachcloud/cloud-org-sso.html).

**Prerequisites**

- **IdP:**

	You must have the ability to create identities and issue JSON Web Token (JWT) formatted auth tokens.

> 	This [Cockroach Labs blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/) covers and provides further resources for a variety of token-issuing use cases, including using Okta and Google Cloud Platform to issue tokens.

Reviewer 2: The link to the blog post is not going to a specific blog post, it seems like it should?

Author: It hasn't been posted yet, I'll update it when that blog post is available.

- **CockroachDB:**

> 	- You must have access to an enterprise cluster, i.e. configured with a valid [CockroachDB enterprise license](enterprise-licensing.html) enabled.

Reviewer 2: Nit: cap on "Enterprise".

> 		See [Enterprise Trial –– Get Started](get-started-with-enterprise-trial.html) for help enabling your cluster with you enterprise license.

Reviewer 2: For another PR and whoever wants to do this: But the double hyphen in this older "Enterprise Trial" page is kind of horrible. I'd never seen this before.

Author: horrible

	- SQL users/credentials:

		- You must have access to credentials with the [`admin` role](security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role), in order to update cluster settings, which is required to allow an external token issuer/IdP.
	
		- A SQL user specifically corresponding to the service account must be pre-provisioned on the cluster (or you must have access to a SQL role allowing you to create such a user).

## Configure your cluster settings

> In order to authenticate a service account to a {{ site.data.products.db }} cluster using a JWT issuer, you must update several cluster settings in the `server.jwt_authentication` namespace:

Reviewer 2: Should this be CockroachDB Cloud here, if we're on the self-hosted page?

1. `server.jwt_authentication.enabled`

	JWT authentication must be enabled on your cluster.

	Required value: `true`

1. `server.jwt_authentication.jwks`

	Add your IdP's public signing key to your cluster's list of accepted signing JSON web keys (JWKS), under the `jwks` setting.

> 	This must be a [JWK](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517) formatted single key or key set, containing the [public keys](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/transport-layer-security.html#key-pairs) for SSO token issuers/IdPs that will be accepted by your cluster.

Reviewer 2: This second sentence "This must be a JWK formatted..." seems closely linked to the first sentence for this setting. Could this be one paragraph?

1. `server.jwt_authentication.issuers`

> 	Add your IdP's formal `issuer` name (this must match the `issuer` field in the JWT itself) to your cluster's list of accepted token issuers:

Reviewer 2: This is similar to the cloud page. It seems like the colon could just be a period here. And, the next sentence on the comma-separated list, could just be part of the same paragraph as it's expanding on the last point. (But, maybe I'm not understanding something here.)

> 	A comma separated list of formal names of accepted JWT issuers. This list must include a given IdP, or the cluster will reject JWTs issued by it.

Reviewer 2: Nit: "comma separated list" --> "comma-separated list"

1. `server.jwt_authentication.audience`
	
	The name of your cluster as specified by the IdP, or a comma-separated list of such names. One of the audience names must match the `audience` field with which your IdP will generate JWT formatted auth tokens.

## Authenticate to your cluster with your JWT token

To provision SQL cluster access for service accounts, you must provision OIDC or SAML tokens. There are many ways to do this, which are beyond the scope of this tutorial.

> For example, your Google Cloud Platform organization can serve as IdP by issuing OIDC auth tokens, as described here in the [GCP docs on issuing tokens to service accounts](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/create-short-lived-credentials-direct#sa-credentials-oidc). This [blog post](https://morgans-blog.deno.dev/sso-crdb-gcp) discussing using GCP-issued OIDC tokens to authenticate to CockroachDB.

Reviewer 2: Typo: "discussing using" --> "discusses using"

Once you have a valid JWT auth token (with `issuer` and `audience` matching the values [configured in your cluster settings](#configure-your-cluster-settings)) from your IdP, you may use it to connect to your cluster's SQL interface.

{{site.data.alerts.success}}
This example uses [`cockroach sql`](cockroach-sql.html), but you can use any SQL client that supports sufficiently long passwords.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
cockroach sql --url "postgresql://{SQL_USERNAME}:{JWT_TOKEN}@{CLUSTER_HOST}:26257?options=--crdb:jwt_auth_enabled=true" --certs-dir={CLUSTER_CERT_DIR}
~~~

~~~txt
Welcome to the cockroach SQL interface...
~~~

> ## Support for tokens with SQL-incompatible subject names

Reviewer 2: The comments I left for this section on the nits and the heading for the cloud page, also apply to this page.

Author: thank you!
